Edge 136 web platform release notes (#3419)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/web-platform/release-notes/136.md

Reviewer: In /web-platform/release-notes/136.md, pls Find "todo" and try to get rid of some, or enter a PR Comment.
@captainbrosset

#### New Chromium origin trials

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Update of Canvas text rendering implementation

Expires on December 16, 2025.

New implementation of `measureText()`, `fillText()`, and `strokeText()` for the CanvasRenderingContext2D API.  You can compare the performance of these methods against the previous implementation of these methods.

* [Explainer](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UbHuoflNyLbSavpH86HEmXFGyz2V4uZ6cjNpuuwrtBg/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Feedback](https://crbug.com/new)
* [Register](https://developer.chrome.com/origintrials/#/register_trial/3227392082964381697)

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Set preferred audio output device

Expires on January 27, 2026.

This feature allows a page to set a non-default device for all audio output from the page, including its child frames.

* [Explainer](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/MSEdgeExplainers/blob/main/SetPreferredSinkId/explainer.md)
* [Feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/MSEdgeExplainers/issues)
* [Register](https://developer.chrome.com/origintrials/#/register_trial/1173750652883435521)

<!-- ---------- -->
###### `confidence` field on `PerformanceNavigationTiming` object

Expires on October 14, 2025.

> The `PerformanceNavigationTiming` object now includes a `confidence` field.  Use the `confidence` field to evaluate whether navigation timings accurately reflect your web app's performance.  The data initially contains some noise, because this field employs differential privacy, to safeguard user privacy.  By gathering this field in your Real User Monitoring (RUM) data, you can accumulate enough records to analyze trends and filter out the noise, gaining meaningful insights over time.

Reviewer 2: The wording change, the last sentence doesn't represent what a developer would do. So perhaps this?

By gathering this field in your Real User Monitoring (RUM) data, you can filter out the noise with enough records to analyze trends and gain meaningful insights over time.

Reviewer: might change last 'with' to 'by using'
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/u/using-by-using-with

* [Explainer](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/MSEdgeExplainers/blob/main/PerformanceNavigationTiming%20for%20User%20Agent%20Launch/explainer.md)
* [Feedback](https://issues.chromium.org/issues/new?component=1456492&priority=P2&type=bug&noWizard=true&title=Feedback%20for%20Confidence%20field&cc=mjackson@microsoft.com&template=0)
* [Register](https://developer.chrome.com/origintrials/#/register_trial/-8409909354160979967)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Microsoft Edge-only origin trials

<!-- ---------- -->

> ###### `handwriting` attribute

Reviewer 2: We should remove this. It as deprecated earlier today. Sorry for the late catch.

* [Explainer](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UbHuoflNyLbSavpH86HEmXFGyz2V4uZ6cjNpuuwrtBg/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Feedback](https://crbug.com/new)
* [Register](https://developer.chrome.com/origintrials/#/register_trial/3227392082964381697)

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Set preferred audio output device

Expires on January 27, 2026.

This feature allows a page to set a non-default device for all audio output from the page, including its child frames.

* [Explainer](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/MSEdgeExplainers/blob/main/SetPreferredSinkId/explainer.md)
* [Feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/MSEdgeExplainers/issues)
* [Register](https://developer.chrome.com/origintrials/#/register_trial/1173750652883435521)

<!-- ---------- -->
###### `confidence` field on `PerformanceNavigationTiming` object

Expires on October 14, 2025.

The `PerformanceNavigationTiming` object now includes a `confidence` field, which allows you to assess whether the navigation timings are representative of your web app's performance.  

> You add noise to this field via a randomized response algorithm, so that an aggregator can debias the data, but individual records cannot used to track users.  Due to this noise, the `confidence` field isn't immediately useful.  By collecting this field in your Real User Monitoring (RUM) data, after collecting enough records, you can analyze your data and eliminate the noise.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `PerformanceNavigationTiming` object now includes a new confidence field, allowing developers to assess whether the navigation timings are representative of their web app's performance. Navigation Timing is extremely useful for understanding the performance of their site. However, operating system and browser activity can cause this data to be noisy. By collecting this field in their Real User Monitoring (RUM) data, with enough records, developers can analyze their data and eliminate the noise.
```

This isn't quite right, how about this?

Reviewer 2: I think we should say this:

The PerformanceNavigationTiming object now includes a new confidence field, enabling developers to evaluate whether navigation timings accurately reflect their web app's performance. However, because this field employs differential privacy to safeguard user privacy, the data initially contains some noise. By gathering this field in their Real User Monitoring (RUM) data, developers can accumulate enough records to analyze trends and filter out the noise, gaining meaningful insights over time.

Reviewer: Prefer "you" over "the developer".
* Per corp style https://learn.microsoft.com/style-guide/grammar/person#in-general-use-second-person-pronouns-you-your
* For clarity through leveraging consistency in this doc-set, 

The audience for LMC, including this docset, is you, the developer.

@captainbrosset @aluhrs13  @mwjacksonmsft 

I am incorp'g @mwjacksonmsft draft, which modifies @aluhrs13 draft, and applying a writer copyedit.

Reviewer: ```
Expires on October 14, 2025.

The `PerformanceNavigationTiming` object now includes a `confidence` field.  Use the `confidence` field to evaluate whether navigation timings accurately reflect your web app's performance.  The data initially contains some noise, because this field employs differential privacy, to safeguard user privacy.  By gathering this field in your Real User Monitoring (RUM) data, you can accumulate enough records to analyze trends and filter out the noise, gaining meaningful insights over time.
```

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Deprecate `Intl.Locale` getters

The `Intl.Locale` API exposes information for a locale, including its week elements and its hour cycle type, such as 12-hour clock, Japanese 12-hour clock, or 24-hour clock.

The accessor properties of the `Intl.Locale` object are now deprecated, in favor of the corresponding functions, per the specification.  For example, the `Intl.Locale.prototype.hourCycle` accessor property is deprecated in favor of the `Intl.Locale.prototype.getHourCycles()` function.

See [Intl.Locale](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/Locale) at MDN.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Origin trials

The following are new experimental APIs that you can try on your own live website for a limited time.

To learn more about origin trials, see [Use origin trials in Microsoft Edge](../../origin-trials/index.md).

To see the full list of available origin trials, see [Microsoft Edge Origin Trials](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/origin-trials/).

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### New Chromium origin trials

> <!-- todo: check all links in section -->

Reviewer: check all links in this section

<!-- ---------- -->
###### AudioContext `interrupted` state

The `AudioContextState` interface now has an `interrupted` state.  The `interrupted` state allows the browser to pause playback in scenarios such as when using exclusive audio access (VoIP) or when a laptop lid is closed, and enables the web app to respond appropriately.

See [AudioContext](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/AudioContext) at MDN.

<!-- ---------- -->

> ###### Blob URL Partitioning: Fetching/Navigation<!-- todo: section lacks "fetching", try to avoid / and spell out -->

Reviewer: per corp style, replace '/' with words
why say 'fetching' in heading but not in body?  usually, section body is a superset of heading's words

<!-- behavior 1 -->
Blob URL access is now partitioned by storage key.  Storage keys are top-level sites, frame origins, and the `has-cross-site-ancestor` boolean.  Top-level navigations remain partitioned only by frame origin.

Partitioning Blob URL access by storage key is similar to what's currently implemented by both Firefox and Safari.  This aligns Blob URL usage with the partitioning scheme that's used by other storage APIs as part of Storage Partitioning.

<!-- behavior 2 -->
Along with that change, Microsoft Edge now enforces `noopener` on renderer-initiated top-level navigations to Blob URLs, where the corresponding site is cross-site to the top-level site that's performing the navigation.  This aligns with similar behavior in Safari and with the corresponding specifications.

> This change can be temporarily reverted by setting the `PartitionedBlobUrlUsage` policy.<!-- todo: applies to behavior 1 & 2? -->  If this policy is set to `Enabled` or is not set, Blob URLs are partitioned.<!-- todo: applies to behavior 1 & 2? -->  If this policy is set to `Disabled`, Blob URLs are not partitioned.

Reviewer: section describes two distinct behavior changes, but then says "this change" - explicitly clarify w/ hints, whether "this change" means both aspects.

Based on the above, the violation detects the conflict between the enforced Permissions Policy and the permissions being propagated to iframes.

<!-- todo: link?
See [__](__) at __.
-->

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Predictable reported storage quota

The StorageManager's `estimate`  now reports a predictable storage quota for sites that have limited storage permissions.

> This prevents the detection of a user's browsing mode via the storage API by reporting an artificial quota.  The quota is the current usage + 10 Gib,<!-- todo: GiB?  GB?  spell out --> in all browsing modes.

Reviewer: "Gib" is evidently wrong capzn

https://www.bing.com/search?q=abbreviation+gib - GiB = gibibyte or Gibibyte
https://www.bing.com/search?q=abbreviation%20gigabit - GB = Gigabit

See [Deprecating support for -ms-high-contrast and -ms-high-contrast-adjust](https://blogs.windows.com/msedgedev/2024/04/29/deprecating-ms-high-contrast/).

* [Explainer](https://blogs.windows.com/msedgedev/2024/04/29/deprecating-ms-high-contrast/)
* [Feedback](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/MSEdgeExplainers/issues/new?labels=MS+High%20Contrast,OriginTrialFeedback&title=%5BMS%20High%20Contrast%5D+Feedback)<!-- todo: Feedback link outputs MS not Ms -->
* [Register](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/origin-trials/trials/fa44c0d7-cb20-490b-97fa-e2559b918759)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### New Chromium origin trials

> <!-- todo: check all links in section -->

Reviewer: on my machine, seems like all links in this section are 404

Reviewer: closing Outdated
